.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

For a legitimate bug, in order to process faster, please go here https://codesandbox.io/s/qcalendar-bx1y7, fork the codesandbox, add code to reproduce the bug and submit link here:

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

**Desktop (please complete the following information):**
 - OS: [e.g. iOS]
 - Browser [e.g. chrome, safari]
 - Version [e.g. 22]

**Smartphone (please complete the following information):**
 - Device: [e.g. iPhone6]
 - OS: [e.g. iOS8.1]
 - Browser [e.g. stock browser, safari]
 - Version [e.g. 22]

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

Commit message:

chore: update github bug_report with QCalendar codepen url

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

For a legitimate bug, in order to process faster, please go here https://codepen.io/Hawkeye64/pen/RwwwKQL, fork the codepen, add code to reproduce the bug and submit link here (don't forget to save your codepen):

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

**Desktop (please complete the following information):**
 - OS: [e.g. iOS]
 - Browser [e.g. chrome, safari]
 - Version [e.g. 22]

**Smartphone (please complete the following information):**
 - Device: [e.g. iPhone6]
 - OS: [e.g. iOS8.1]
 - Browser [e.g. stock browser, safari]
 - Version [e.g. 22]

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.
