app-extension/README.md, before:

# Quasar App Extension QCalendar

The **QCalendar App Extension** allows you to seamlessly add the [QCalendar](../ui) component into your Quasar application. It manages the boot file file and all other configuration for you.

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-qcalendar.svg?label=quasar-app-extension-qcalendar)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/quasar-app-extension-qcelendar)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-qcalendar.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-qcalendar)

![QCalendar example month view](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/quasarframework/quasar-ui-qcalendar/dev/demo/src/statics/qcalendar-month-view.png)

# Install
```bash
quasar ext add @quasar/qcalendar
```
Quasar CLI will retrieve it from NPM and install the extension.

# Uninstall
```bash
quasar ext remove @quasar/qcalendar
```

# Donate
If you appreciate the work that went into this App Extension, please consider [donating to Quasar](https://donate.quasar.dev).

# License
MIT (c) Jeff Galbraith <jeff@quasar.dev>

Commit message:

chore: update read me with link to UI component

app-extension/README.md, after:

# Quasar App Extension QCalendar

The **QCalendar App Extension** allows you to seamlessly add the [QCalendar](../ui) component into your Quasar application. It manages the boot file file and all other configuration for you.

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-qcalendar.svg?label=quasar-app-extension-qcalendar)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/quasar-app-extension-qcelendar)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-qcalendar.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-qcalendar)

![QCalendar example month view](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/quasarframework/quasar-ui-qcalendar/dev/demo/src/statics/qcalendar-month-view.png)

# Examples and Documentation for QCalendar UI Component
Can be found [here](https://quasarframework.github.io/quasar-ui-qcalendar)

# Install
```bash
quasar ext add @quasar/qcalendar
```
Quasar CLI will retrieve it from NPM and install the extension.

# Uninstall
```bash
quasar ext remove @quasar/qcalendar
```

# Donate
If you appreciate the work that went into this App Extension, please consider [donating to Quasar](https://donate.quasar.dev).

# License
MIT (c) Jeff Galbraith <jeff@quasar.dev>
