docs/src/pages/all-about-qcalendar/anatomy-of-a-calendar.md, before:

---
title: Anatomy of a Calendar
desc: Identify the parts of a Calendar
keys: All about QCalendar
components:
  - anatomy/QCalendarDayAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarWeekAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarMonthAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarMonthMiniModeAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarSchedulerAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarResourceAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarAgendaAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarTaskAnatomy
---
Make a selection on the left of a calendar to see the result on the right.

::: warning
Some selections may not show up correctly because of `sticky` being used, which causes the sticky section to be above the highlighted area.
:::

## QCalendarDay
<q-calendar-day-anatomy />

## QCalendarDay (week)
<q-calendar-week-anatomy />

## QCalendarMonth
<q-calendar-month-anatomy />

## QCalendarMonth (mini-mode)
<q-calendar-month-mini-mode-anatomy />

## QCalendarScheduler
<q-calendar-scheduler-anatomy />

## QCalendarResource
<q-calendar-resource-anatomy />

## QCalendarAgenda
<q-calendar-agenda-anatomy />

## QCalendarTask
<q-calendar-task-anatomy />

Commit message:

chore(docs): add more related

docs/src/pages/all-about-qcalendar/anatomy-of-a-calendar.md, after:

---
title: Anatomy of a Calendar
desc: Identify the parts of a Calendar
keys: All about QCalendar
components:
  - anatomy/QCalendarDayAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarWeekAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarMonthAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarMonthMiniModeAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarSchedulerAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarResourceAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarAgendaAnatomy
  - anatomy/QCalendarTaskAnatomy
related:
  - /all-about-qcalendar/what-is-qcalendar
  - /designing-with-qcalendar/getting-started
  - /designing-with-qcalendar/themes
---
Make a selection on the left of a calendar to see the result on the right.

::: warning
Some selections may not show up correctly because of `sticky` being used, which causes the sticky section to be above the highlighted area.
:::

## QCalendarDay
<q-calendar-day-anatomy />

## QCalendarDay (week)
<q-calendar-week-anatomy />

## QCalendarMonth
<q-calendar-month-anatomy />

## QCalendarMonth (mini-mode)
<q-calendar-month-mini-mode-anatomy />

## QCalendarScheduler
<q-calendar-scheduler-anatomy />

## QCalendarResource
<q-calendar-resource-anatomy />

## QCalendarAgenda
<q-calendar-agenda-anatomy />

## QCalendarTask
<q-calendar-task-anatomy />
